before I start take a look around isn't
this an amazing venue like this is an
amazing theater so please
a huge round of applause and thanks to
the dot scale team because this is one
of the best conferences I've ever been
to so computation is about functions
functions are encoded and code is data
so computation is about data and how
data moves how it transfers in the
network what properties it has how
fault-tolerant that system is has vast
implications into what our computation
can do what our software does what our
applications do and therefore what we as
humans are capable of doing software has
already become our superpower we can do
amazing things today that 30 years ago
were absurd and this is because of our
computation platform and thus how we
move that computation really matters in
a very deep ethical way and I'm here to
talk to you about that and there's a lot
of problems right that it makes sense to
talk to you the engineers and developers
and designers of the web the architects
that are constructing how this network
operates there are problems that you
need to be aware of solutions that you
made employ to fix them and I want to
tell you about one possible solution
that we're working on and that's ipfs
the interplanetary file system so in the
days of yore there was packet switching
right this is Paul brands classification
of networks from centralized to
decentralized to distributed and these
have very different properties right so
centralized networks are very easy to
take down but they're very easy to to
work with right like it's very simple to
upgrade the thing and so on distributed
networks are much more fault tolerant
but way harder to build the Internet is
this amazing nervous system that we all
share and we can ship around our
computations in our data to each eye
and has made it possible for me to speak
to you around the world in less than a
second it's incredible and the web is
truly how we humans use the internet we
don't speak you know encoded byte
streams so we have to use applications
on top of the Internet and these
applications that today govern most of
our lives
there's people implications about how
the web is structured that changes how
these applications behave and how our
superpowers work and so the web is sick
it's sick with centralization this is a
disease this you know it started kind of
simple you know you have one nice server
serving a bunch of clients but you know
then it looks something like this and
then suddenly it gets you know this is
only like a small picture you can think
of one massive web server serving
billions of users right and in reality
we all know that that one web server is
a massive distributed system behind the
scenes but it all goes to this one choke
point which means that you your clients
your mobile phones and so on have to
talk to the backbone and so this has
deep implications with with how we use
the network right so first off you know
it's obviously terribly inefficient
right when you if you all loaded Gangnam
style right now and how to download the
same video you'd peg the panel width of
the entire uplink from here to there and
we'd waste an enormous amount of
bandwidth right why can't we be more
efficient about this you know Gangnam
style has been viewed 2.5 billion times
and if you you know take the average
size video to be 200 Meg's
that's roughly 512 petabytes like this
is totally back over the envelope
probably not right but this gives you a
scale of the of the magnitude of the
bandwidth that we're talking about right
the web is basically not in in very much
in mobile and less so in in all the IOT
stuff right it's vanishing from from
those platforms and because the
architecture just doesn't make sense it
doesn't make sense to have to talk to a
centralized server all the time it
doesn't work offline it doesn't work in
this connected networks think about my
supercomputer right in in this pocket
this thing is incredibly powerful and
why can't I send a message from here to
your computer right there like I just
want the message from here to go to
there and this does
work today it doesn't work very
efficiently and most of these
applications force you to mediate all
the transfers through the backbone it
also has a terrible security model in my
point of view aside from the massive
breaches and the mass surveillance and
so on there's like a deeper problem
which is that even if we force everyone
to encrypt with TLS the data itself is
not encrypted at rest or it's not even
authenticated right so you could have
your email or all your social networking
information and somebody on the server
side could sneak in there and change it
and you would wouldn't even know
suddenly you you could find old emails
that you wrote theoretically without you
know any kind of signature like we've
known about encryption and digital
signing for many decades we should know
better we should be doing working with
these primitives in a much better way so
I'd love to get the web to be
authenticated and encrypted at rest
there's also a point about data control
right and I think here Europe is way far
ahead than the US and thinking about
this but you know there's these massive
social networks that are gathering a lot
of data and making it possible for me to
send a message to the world and for
anyone in the world to send a message
back to me and that's incredibly
powerful and amazing but these databases
are not really ours right they're
they're governed by these applications
and the addresses themselves to the
resources always go through them right
so if I want to link you to a tweet I
have to link you through the application
that they govern there's no way of
linking you to the data itself
this is particularly infuriating so the
Internet is this amazing force for
equality right like it gives people
equal access to knowledge equal access
to communication and so on and the web
was like that for for a while but
nowadays with websites being megabytes
in size or you know web servers cutting
off connections that have two bad
latencies right it happened to me and if
your latency goes above six or seven
seconds a lot of web servers will just
not even talk to you you won't even
complete TLS handshakes so that is a
disaster because we're blocking the
people that need the web the most and
that is in my point of view inexcusable
and we need to fix this and even here in
the nice metropolis is with with
mountains of data and so on natural
disasters can occur and so what happens
when a network has no or bad
connectivity to the backbone but the
local network still works you know in
many cases you can still get reliable
connectivity in one area or you can
deploy a mesh network but the the uplink
may be off so why is it that we can't
make our communication systems operate
and in situations like these right like
what happens today is like oh sorry
error try it again later right in like
imagine that you're trying to find your
family and it gets worse when it's about
human disasters right so when suddenly
you know there's massive censorship or
surprise suppression one morning you
wake up and your access to the Internet
is off you can't talk to anyone like
that is not okay so the last thing I'll
mention is that links break and that
sites disappear because this idealized
web of documents it's really a web of
documents on specific machines and this
is like a book burners paradise because
all you have to do is go and take one
server down or worse we just carelessly
change URLs all the time we don't even
think about it we just break tons of
links and people's access breaks at that
point so hopefully I've impressed upon
you the the weight of the matter here
these are serious issues that our
society has to deal with and they don't
enter our field of view most of the time
right because you're just focused very
much on your application and getting to
the next thing and and building the next
cool feature and and deploying it and so
on and after all you know it's not your
threat model to deal with situations
like that but whether or not it is it is
your your model people are using your
applications and they're depending on
them the the get amazing superpower that
you gave them with this beautiful piece
of software they start depending on that
superpower and at any point when that
superpower doesn't quite work right or
breaks or you know you move on and stop
maintaining it that is a breaking a
social contract that was implicit in the
giving of the software all right so a
lot of these problems are stem from the
addressing model so when you
think about the web and how you point at
all of the content you always point in
terms of domain names or IP addresses so
it's about location names on location
and you have to be online to resolve all
of this it's a little bit like imagine
if I told you to go read a book but my
directions for reading the book started
with hey go to this specific library in
a specific location you know go and find
this book there and you couldn't go
anywhere else to find the book that's
kind of you know crazy right and it made
a lot of sense at the time it made the
web scalable but now we are in this
basket tuition where this is a very
strong force for centralization and they
makes it very difficult for us to build
the centralized or distributed
alternatives you know it looks like this
even if a ton of people have had the
content you only one specific host can
serve it to you so there's good news
right like the good news is that the
hard part of the Internet of building
the Internet is over we wire it up a lot
of the world there's still much more to
go but at the very least we have this
amazing platform that we can deploy
software updates to and all it takes is
new protocols and new code to fix things
and applications themselves are
relatively easy to fix
and so you one of the things I want to
impress upon you is that you can fix
this you have the power to do this
it's kind of daunting to think changing
the entire internet right but all you
need is just to think about like good
ideas and turn those into specs and to
created some implementation some deploy
them and if they're good you'll grant
humans more superpowers is the same
thing that you do with an application
but you could do it at the internet
level and this you know goes from like
you know research development deployment
and so on and a lot of these problems
have been fixed in the past it's just
that the pipeline from research to usage
is really bad most of the research
doesn't never gets used and we need to
fix this as well this is another problem
I'll talk about Gate for a little bit
and then I'll dive into IP FS because
you know I wanted to impress upon you
the magnitude of the problems because
that's really what IP us is about it's
solving those things that's far more
important for you to understand and then
the technical details but let's dive in
so we all you know understand get to a
good degree you know in the good old
days of of CBS n SP n we have
centralized server and we
have to talk to this one machine and if
you got disconnected from it you
couldn't work and if that thing went
down
nobody could work right kid came in and
solved that problem by saying no no this
is madness let's do distributed version
control have the ability to have many
many servers many clients able to talk
to each other if you get disconnected it
doesn't matter you can still work
individually you can still talk to
others if you know honey badger don't
care if if the central things fall apart
still doesn't matter honey badger don't
care you can still work you can talk to
each other you can set up a new one and
it's not a big problem right it's
annoying buts not a big problem so IP FS
is about taking this type of approach
and making it work across the entire web
it's what I like to call hyper speed
because it allows you to cheat the speed
of light you might have the content
locally and in the whole point here I
like the reason gate is able to do this
is because it Merkel links objects one
object is linked to another through its
cryptographic hash and that makes it so
that anyone can serve it to you and that
you can check the integrity you can
think of like this chain of documents of
being able to verify all of these links
right another amazing in-development
strd t's conflict flee replicated data
types this is an amazing development not
enough time to cover here but I wanted
to point it out because if you don't
know about these go find out huge deal
it's still early days but these are
gonna change how we build all
applications the other thing I'll
mention is the explosion of a new wave
of peer-to-peer 2.0 type protocols that
are coming right so it's all started
with Bitcoin and reminding us that we
could build distributed systems
reminding us that we can that we can do
transactions in a different way that we
can seed control to the network and the
behave as part of it atheria m-- took
that and took it up a notch by being
able to just do any kind of computation
through it and now we're starting to see
the first large applications being
deployed on top of these networks right
so things like open Bazaar which
launched recently that's a full eBay
like store system where you can sell
anything that works completely
distributed in a centralized uses
Bitcoin as a payment system and all of
the content is accessible through the
network and there's no central point you
can add central points to improve the
performance right to optimize but never
as a point of control or failure
and that's the point right so if we were
to categorize the web in you know 1.0
world we just took the internet and we
added the ability to point at a data in
web 2.0 we pointed out programs and have
those programs run and manipulate the
data and what if I were to call this
thing web 3.0 it's it's an inversion of
the relationship where now data links to
data itself or programs and they operate
with public verifiability so that no
organization no entity can manipulate
those results or that you don't depend
on people it's like massive
disintermediation so maybe we can use
these ideas to structure a better web to
link the web in a stronger way and to
improve our system right let's make the
web faster safer operate and
distributive way have permanent links
and work offline and so that's what IP
fuss is about it's about creating a new
hyper media distribution protocol really
just that means you know a fancy way of
saying just a new transport for the web
that uses Merkle links at its core idea
this is kind of like the stack of the
protocol it's broken up into different
pieces like the bottom part which is the
hardest thing to do is build all this
like peer-to-peer software you know tons
of different protocols that you have to
think about and use you know being able
to connect locally being able to deal
with dhts being able to deal with pops
of and so on all these different kind of
transports being able to be inside of a
browser container you know browsers hand
box and talk to the rest of the network
what kind of stuff that is probably the
hardest part but and we're creating this
library around it so you'll be able to
build all sorts of peer-to-peer systems
out of it so when you think about ipfs
you really think of like a bunch of
peer-to-peer protocols inside of this
one node and some really nice interfaces
to just add and retrieve content by hash
and so this this core part of ipfs it's
the web of Merkle links and so think
about structuring data in you know it
has the same kind of properties as get
Bitcoin and BitTorrent and so on and you
think of IP FS is this huge Merkel
forest right so if individual trees of
Merkel linked are one tree you know you
can think of like block chances this
massively tall tree and you should be
able to link between all the things
naming applications and so on layer on
top and so the addressing model looks
like this where the
bottom you have content addresses
pointing to those are unreadable and you
know get change whenever you manipulate
a content but those are dependable
forever right you don't have to be
around servers don't have to be around
those are truly dependable the next
layer is naming with keys there's a
bunch of interesting stuff around that
but I won't have time to cover it and
then there's names on top that you can
bind human readable names should be
bound at the very top at the end not as
the core part that you depend on so when
you think about adding content to ipfs
you can think of a file system and that
just Maps directly into you know this
the way that it does it with just doing
merkel linking right like you just hash
contents and take that hash and put it
as a link and then the other file and
you keep going all the way to the root
so you have the ability to address and
path nicely as you would expect in the
web or the path system you can do more
complicated stuff like versioning data
structures right it doesn't have to be a
file well your I professor is not about
files even though it's a file system
it's about data and structuring
relationships between data so think
about just a git commit and applying git
commits to anything not just files you
could get commit version of you know
like your edits to a song or something
and and so you think about just
accessing ipfs data through through an
interface like that and so you you take
the data model that is right now locked
up in your databases and just rip it
open and spread it into the web and like
that is what we can do it's you can
address all the content directly you
don't have to depend on those
organizations you don't have to depend
on those particular pieces of software
you can move around you can reason about
how the content moves how the syncs
happen and so on to make offline
possible you can do things like have the
whole PKI like all those certificate
authority stuff like all the
certificates and so on put them straight
on ipfs and all you need is one hash and
from one hash you can retrieve
signatures certificates keys to validate
stuff and so on it's about giving
information print like qualities where
the references are to the work and not
to the copy so yeah this is the the IP
of a stack it's about that central point
how we represent data and so on it's a
huge open source project it is got tons
of contributors
very high velocity so this is really
call to you to come and help us
and help build it because how we lay out
this foundation now can have vast
implications for you in the future and
it would be fantastic to get your input
now huge network you know you know a
bunch of like interesting things here's
the kind of stuff that people build you
know distribution platforms buter ph add
archives all you know totally
distributed web apps you can find all of
this stuff on the web I don't really
have to go through it here but you can
just know that you can build things like
distributed chat applications entirely
and ipfs like this is one example just
you type enter stuff each individual
message is an object that you can
address you can create new interfaces to
act as the same data doesn't matter you
can use them for package managers so you
know when you think about package
managers being centralized and so on and
that being a problem you can think of
putting NPM one ipfs or a go package
manager so we have it all these are
projects that we have you should check
up all right so that's really all I want
to say about IP us and about the network
and if I would end with one word is that
think carefully about the implications
of the software you create because
whether you want it or not people depend
on the software you're right and depend
on the failure modes that you create and
so when you give somebody this amazing
superpower and make it really good and
they start using it and depending on it
you will have to deal with that social
contract you created and if you break
that bad things can happen and so thank
you that's it